Alright! I have refactored the project
to a Multi Module Maven project, and I
decided to do this as a code review,
because when you start refactoring this,
things don't always go perfectly right.
So, it can get a little bit tricky, but it
actually wasn't too bad. I've done this a
lot. If you are new to Maven
or don't have a lot of experience
with Maven, I imagine this would be get a
little hairy for you to reflect or
something like this, because Maven is
something I've worked with for quite
some time, longer than I want to admit. But, at
the end of day, Maven is a really great
build tool. It's like a comfortable shoe
for me. So, I'm going to step you through
a code review on this, so you'll be able
to go ahead and contrast this. Let
give you a little tour here. So, we did
have the spring5-mvc-rest. That was the
root of our project, and now, I've added
in, we have two modules - rest-model and
spring5-mvc-rest-app. So, that's
our Spring Boot Application. rest-model
only has the XSD in it. I'm not going to
configure JAXB in this video. I'm going
to focus on the refactoring to a multi
module project. So, that's really the
important part. I want you to get some
hands-on with Maven. If you're
comfortable with Maven, go ahead and
skip to the next video because the rest
of this video is going to be focused on
multi module projects with Maven and how
we do that Spring build. So, we can see
here, I've got the the REST parent, so
this is a parent POM. This has changed
some. I want to go ahead and see if
I can
prepare the same repository version. That
should do it. Okay, so we got a good
compare here. So, I'm just comparing
against the current repository version,
which would be their original. We can
see that the one thing that I did change
is a package names, groupId. I had
springfamework. I was missing the R
in framework. I've refactored that. So, you
can see that on line 6 there. Now, I
changed the artifactId from REST Spring
MVC. REST to REST Parent. I added a dash
parent there to make this a parent POM
to have that, and then, changed the
packaging to POM. So, POM stands for
Project Object Model. That's a Maven
thing. I made some updates there, and
then, a very important one here, you can
see on 21 to 25 on the right-hand screen,
this part of the screen, I've added in a
section called modules. And now, I have
two modules. I'm declaring the rest
module and the spring5-mvc-rest-app.
Now, you can see here the dependencies.
I've completely omitted that from the
parent POM, and the reason I've done that,
the quick rule of thumb is if I have
multiple modules and I have a dependency
that's going to be shared amongst those,
I will declare it in the parent. But, if
it's not going to be shared,
I don't declare it. Now, remember that
your POMs do inherit from each other. So,
it is an object model so you are
inheriting it. You're like extending out
these classes so you can rely on Maven
to inherit properties and dependencies
and things from the parent. So, you can
see on the left there, that is the before
and so that's all been emitted, and now
that the last big piece of the puzzle is
I do have repositories and plug-in
repositories. This is bringing in this
snapshots of milestones. Right now, I
am on a milestone release
M7 of Spring Boot. That is why I
need these. Now, once I get to a GA
release, these can be deleted from it. So,
we are a little bit on the bleeding edge
right now. Working out a
milestone release of Spring 5. You've
noticed ringing in GA releases a Spring
Framework. Spring Boot is still in a
milestone stage. I'm recording this in
mid January, and we are supposed to have
the first release candidate coming out
soon. Only closed this.
I think officially January 25th, which is
just a few days from now. So, let's take a
quick look at the rest model first. This
is the simplest one. I am declaring it
So, I'm even saying that. I could
even delete this because that is getting
inherited. So, thank you IntelliJ. Cleaned
that up and it turned off auto import
while I was doing everything. So, if when
you update this, if IntelliJ should lose
its mind, a quick tip is to come in here
and run and validate caches and restart,
because we are juggling things around
quite a bit, so intelligent could get
confused. I wouldn't be surprised if
someone you need to do this. I did not
have to do it. So, this project here, we
have it in the one resource class. That's
our customer.xsd that we created in
the last one. We are going to configure
this module to use JAXB to generate
Java code from that. We are not going to
do that in this video, but this is the
module that we are going to do it in. Now,
this is our Spring Boot application. This
lived previously at Spring MVC REST. Now,
I've moved the code up to its own module
under spring5-mvc-rest-app. It's the
same stuff that we had before, with the
exception, I renamed the package from
springfamework to springframework. Now,
let's take a look at the pom on this one.
This one, just like before, we can also
whack that groupId
and I'm going to re-enable auto import.
So now, ought to keep clicking that and with
every pom change. Now, this one here, I
see these properties could get inherited.
So, I am going to go ahead and delete
these because these would override.
These properties will still be available.
Again, I'm going to inherit from the
parent POM. I don't need to declare
them and the child here. Now, I'm
declaring a bunch of dependencies here.
Now remember, the parent POM is
inheriting from the Spring Boot parent
POM. So, I'm getting get all the
dependency information there. One thing I
don't think I called out before though,
Woodstock, I did need added in a
dependency on that. Looks like the Spring
is not curating that Java dependency. So,
I do need a version number there. The
rest are going to be inherited from the
Spring Boot Parent POM but they
accepted a Mapstruct. We moved that out
to property and also Swagger. But these
are the same dependencies that we had
before. I did not change anything at all.
So, this all happy. It's all using all
the same plugins. I move the plugins here.
These are not going to be utilized by
the other project. So, this is all the
same as to what we had before, and
actually, I can get rid of these
repositories because those also will be
inherited from the parent. So now, over
here, on the right hand side in the
Maven projects, you can see that I have
two Spring MVC REST. I
renamed you.
That's where that's coming from.
Now you can see that that name
changed there. That was coming off the name of that
rather than that artifactId. So, here's
my modules name, and you can see this one
has root next to it, so let's go ahead
and open that up and run it clean.
We can see now that we have the
different dependencies here. Let's go
ahead and package it.
See that we are going through the
compiled step. This is going to run
the package goal against each module. So,
the parent, the model, and also the spring5
mvc-rest-app. So,
effectively, three of them will run. Now,
we can see here, the parent ran and the
model, then the rest. That was just by
sheer luck that model ran before rest.
Because right now, the rest does not have
a model.
So, technically, Maven could have picked
those either way. Just happen to pick it
to run that way.
Now, once we go in and configure our
JAXB generation, we are going to put a
dependency in the rest app. So, we will
tell the rest app that we want to
include the jar in from the rest model
module. So, we'll do that in an
upcoming video. But now, you can see that
we do have a Multi Module Maven Build.
And just to recap, so you understand
exactly what's happening here, because
there's a lot of inheritance going on.
Ultimately, we are going from the Spring
Boot Starter Parent. I don't know if we
can jump to the source. Okay, so we are
jumping to the source here, and you can
see, IntelliJ is going to use users home
.m2 repository. So, that is a
Maven repository. So, this is an image
kept on my local hard drive, and now, we
are looking at. So, this is the parent
POM that we are inheriting from. So, you
can see that this gets one from Spring
Boot Dependencies. So, if you ever want to
see what's going on in there, now you
can see there's a lot of
jars being handled in that. So, our POM is
inheriting from the starter POM, which is
an area from that POM. So right now, we
have four or five different levels of
inheritance. Do we have another one.
Just looking at it quickly. I don't think
so.
Close properties.
So, you can see quite a bit
happening there, as far as how the
dependencies are being handled. So, the
important thing to keep in mind, how
dependencies are being inherited inside
of Maven. So, we are inheriting from the
curated Spring. This is our POM, and now,
our sub modules are also inheriting. So,
these guys inherit from its parent. Its
parent inherits from its parent, and so
on. So, if you are not familiar with
working with Maven, it's important to
understand how things inherit. Hopefully,
this clears it up and it clears up what
we did and gives you some good hands-on
experience with Multi Module Maven
Builds, because when you get in the
Enterprise, I guarantee you're going to see
Multi Module Builds.